https://launchschool.com/exercises/10b4a68a

***What will the following code print and why? Don't run it until you have tried to answer.***

```ruby
a = 7

def my_value(b)
  b += 10
end

 my_value(a)
 puts a
```

---

### Answer:

The biggest idea in this problem is probably the importance of 
differencing attending to what implies a reassigning operation,
how objects are passed as arguments into methods via parameters
defined in the method's declaration, and its relation with
variable scope.

In line 6 we initialize the variable `a` assigning it to the integer
number 7

between lines 8-10 there is the method `my_value` declaration,
signed by the keyword `def`, and stablishing the parameter `b`
that will be used to pass an object as an argument, assign to it,
and thus making it available to the method body as a local 
variable `b`

inside the `my_value`'s method body, in line 9 local variable `b`
is reassigned, using syntactic sugar `+=`, equivalent to making
a reassigning operation `b = b + 10`, in consequence reassigning
the variable `b` to an integer object result of the addition 
of 10 to the integer that it was already pointing to. 

As the method last and only line, the method's return value
will be the same as the `+=` method return value, which will be the
integer result of the addition of 10 to the previous value of `b`.

on line 12 we have the `my_value` method invocation, using the 
previously assigned `a`, as an argument. In this case (we can't see it
as we are not "capturing" it by another method) the method will
return the integer 17. However, maybe this is what we expected to
see when printing variable `a` by calling `puts` and using it as 
argument (that outputs a string representation of an object passed 
as an argument but returns `nil`): it is not the case. When printing 
`a`, we will get a 7. 

This phenomenon is due to the operation in line 9, which means
a reassignment, and not a direct modification of the object
which variable `b` is pointing to. What it's happening is that
we are reassigning the local variable `b`( which pointed, after passing
`a` as `my_value` method argument, to the integer 7) to an integer
object that is the result of adding 10 to 7: 17. Now `b` points
to the object 17. But outside the method definition `a` stills
points to the object 7! This is equivalent of doing this:

```ruby
a = 7
b = a

b += 10

p a == 7 # will ouput true
p b == 17 # also true
```