https://launchschool.com/exercises/d1fc410d

***What will the following code print, and why? ***

```ruby
a = 7
array = [1, 2, 3]

array.each do |element|
  a = element
end

puts a
```
---

***Answer:***

This piece of code concerns method invocation with blocks, 
and how code blocks have different scope rules than method
definitions.

In line 6 we initialize variable `a` assigning it to the integer 7,
and in the next line we initialize a variable `array` by 
doing it to an array object composed of the three integers 1, 2, 3
using the literal array constructor `[]`.

In line 9 we see the `each` iterator method invocation called on
`array`, and providing a codeblock and a parameter `element` between
`||` . What this method does is passing each one of the elements in
collection object on which we call it (an array in this case), one 
at a time, as a local variable to the block by the name provided
between `||`, *yielding* control to the block. But `each` (differencing
itself from other iterators like `map`) does not 'care' about the
block's return value, as it will just return the original unmodified
on which we called it. 

In this particular case, according to the expression of the 
each block variable `a` will be reassigned 3 times. Yes, reassigned.
That because `a`, being previously initialized outside the block,
can be accessed from within the block. `a` will be reassigned
to 1, 2, and 3, respectively. So, 3 will be the final integer to which 
`a` is assigned to, and so its final value. We will see 3 when we
call `puts` to print `a`.
