# Exercise 05

You started writing a very basic class for handling files. However, when you begin to write some simple test code, you get a NameError. The error message complains of an uninitialized constant File::FORMAT.

What is the problem and what are possible ways to fix it?

```ruby
class File
  attr_accessor :name, :byte_content

  def initialize(name)
    @name = name
  end

  alias_method :read,  :byte_content
  alias_method :write, :byte_content=

  def copy(target_file_name)
    target_file = self.class.new(target_file_name)
    target_file.write(read)

    target_file
  end

  def to_s
    # Before: "#{name}.#{FORMAT}"
    "#{name}.#{self.class::FORMAT}"
  end
end

class MarkdownFile < File
  FORMAT = :md
end

class VectorGraphicsFile < File
  FORMAT = :svg
end

class MP3File < File
  FORMAT = :mp3
end

# Test

blog_post = MarkdownFile.new('Adventures_in_OOP_Land')
blog_post.write('Content will be added soon!'.bytes)

copy_of_blog_post = blog_post.copy('Same_Adventures_in_OOP_Land')

puts copy_of_blog_post.is_a? MarkdownFile     # true
puts copy_of_blog_post.read == blog_post.read # true

puts blog_post
```

Here the problem was on line 26, because the program couln't find a constant `FORMAT`, although there is a `FORMAT` initialized in the threee subclasses of `File`. This demonstrates the special constant scope in Ruby:
constants have lexical scope, which means that when Ruby tries to resolve them, it searches 'lexically', meaning, it searches the surrounding structure—lexical scope— of the constant reference. If it fails, Ruby then traverses up the inheritance hierarchy of that surrounding structure. And if this fails too, it will look up in the top—main— level. In this case, it looks for the constant in the lexical scope of its reference, the class `File`. But there's no `FORMAT` there, so it traverses its inheritance chain up, to end in the top level without success. That's why the program raises an exception.

However, its also possible to refer to a constant with an specific location using the `::` lookup notation. Instead of trying to reference the constant in its lexical scope, we specify in what class we want to look for it: the class name returned from the `class` call on `self` (an instance of the `MarkdownFile` class): `MarkdownFile`. Now, Ruby knows exactly where to look for the constant: inside the `MarkdownFile`. This would be valid the same for any instance of the `File` subclasses, as any call of `class` on each `self` would return the corresponding class name.