 Exercise 02

What will the following code log to the console and why? Don't run the code until after you have tried to answer.

```js
var myVar = 'This is global';

function someFunction() {
  var myVar = 'This is local';
  console.log(myVar);
}

someFunction();
```

This function will log `'This is local'` to the terminal. This is the case because the value of the variable `myVar`, passed as argument to `console.log()`, is that string, as this variable is confined to the body of the function. The outer `myVar` belongs to a different scope (global scope), and it is just a different variable, with the same name. This means it is a case of variable shadowing: we will never be able to access an outer variable `myVar` if we have a variable of the same name in the local scope, relative to whatever code it's being executed.

LS:

> There is only one small difference between this exercise and the previous one: this time, the console.log(myVar) expression is located inside of the function. Recall that there is a myVar variable in both the global scope (line 1) and a local scope (line 4). Supposedly, variables in the global scope are accessible from anywhere in the program. In this case however, JavaScript gives priority to the myVar in the local scope, since that's the same scope from which myVar is being referenced by console.log. Because it has the same name, the global myVar cannot be accessed from within the local scope of the function. This type of behavior is called variable shadowing.